NAME
eBook-speaker - read aloud eBooks and other text formats using a
software speech-synthesizer
SYNOPSIS
eBook-speaker eBook_file | -s
DESCRIPTION
eBook-speaker reads aloud eBooks and other text formats and even scanned documents using a software speech-synthesizer. By default the tool espeak is used for speech output.
eBook-speaker also can scan a documant by itself using the scanimage application.

A list of items on the eBook will appear. Press <ENTER> to start reading. When reading of an item has finished, eBook-speaker will read the next item and the cursor will automatically skip to that item, so that an attached braille-terminal will display the name of that item.
OPTIONS
eBook_file  Give an eBook_file as argument to eBook-speaker.  Many eBook formats are supported. eBook-speaker also tries to read scanned documents through Optical Character Recognition.

		Supported formats
		-----------------
		AportisDoc
		ASCII mail text
		ASCII text
		Broadband eBooks (BBeB)
		Composite Document File (Microsoft Office Word)
		EPUB ebook data
		GIF image data
		GutenPalm zTXT
		HTML document
		ISO-8859 text
		JPEG image data
		Microsoft Reader eBook Data
		Microsoft Windows HtmlHelp Data
		Microsoft Word 2007+
		Mobipocket E-book
		MS Windows HtmlHelp Data
		Netpbm PPM data
		OpenDocument Text
		PDF document
		PeanutPress PalmOS
		PNG image data
		PostScript document
		Rich Text Format
		UTF-8 Unicode mail text
		UTF-8 Unicode text
		WordPerfect

-s  Scan a document using a hardware scanner.

SCREEN
The name and version of this program and the name of the author is displayed left aligned at the top of the screen. The name of the current loaded book is displayed right aligned.

The second row of the screen displays the number of pages of the current loaded book (if any), the current selected level and the total number of levels, the current displayed screen and the total number of screens.

The next rows displays the title of the item, the first page of the item within brackets (if there are pages) and the total number of phrases in this item. Items in higher levels are indented. (Three spaces each level.) When "just reading this item" is active, a "J" is viewed at the first column of that item.
CONTROL KEYS
eBook-speaker recognizes the following keyboard-commands:
cursor down     move cursor to the next item
cursor up       move cursor to the previous item
cursor right    skip to next phrase
cursor left     skip to previous phrase
page-down       view next screen
page-up         view previous screen
enter           Start reading
space           pause/resume reading
home            read on normal speed
/               search for a label
D               decrease reading speed
f               find the currently reading item and place the cursor there
g               go to phrase in current item
h or ?          give this help
j               just read current item and place a "J" at the first column.
l               switch to next level
L               switch to previous level
n               search forewards
N               search backwards
o               select next output sound device
p               place a bookmark
q               quit eBook-speaker. The reading-point is saved as bookmark.
s               stop reading
t               select next TTS
U               increase reading speed
TTS
When pressing the 't'-command, the TTS-selector appears. A few TTS-applications are defined by default. 
Choose one by moving the cursor with the cursor-keys and select it by pressing the ENTER-key.
To delete a TTS-command press the DEL-key.
A new TTS-command can be provided by adding the TTS-command to the TTS-line.
To edit an existing TTS-command one has to edit the ~/.eBook-speaker.xml file by hand.
Be sure that the new TTS reads its information from the file eBook-speaker.txt and that it writes to the file eBook-speaker.wav.
TTS EXAMPLES
Here are some examples to insert into the TTS-selector:

   espeak \-f eBook-speaker.txt \-w eBook-speaker.wav
   espeak \-f eBook-speaker.txt \-w eBook-speaker.wav \-v mb-en1
   espeak \-f eBook-speaker.txt \-w eBook-speaker.wav \-v de
   espeak \-f eBook-speaker.txt \-w eBook-speaker.wav \-v nl
   espeak \-f eBook-speaker.txt \-w eBook-speaker.wav \-v mb-nl2
   flite eBook-speaker.txt eBook-speaker.wav
   swift \-n Lawrence \-f eBook-speaker.txt \-o eBook-speaker.wav
   text2wave eBook-speaker.txt \-o eBook-speaker.wav
   text2wave \-eval '(voice_en1_mbrola)' eBook-speaker.txt \-o eBook-speaker.wav
FILES
~/.eBook-speaker/  This directory contains the bookmarks in XML-format. Each file has the name of the book and contains the name of the current item, the start-phrase of that item, the current level, the desired TTS and the desired reading speed.
~/.eBook-speaker.xml  This file, in XML-format,  contains the name of the desired audio device and the TTS's to use. (See TTS EXAMPLES)
/tmp/eBook-speaker.XXXXXX  eBook-speaker makes use of a temporary directory. It is removed after quiting.
SEE ALSO
ebook-convert(1), calibre(1), lowriter(1), ocrfeeder-cli(1), espeak(1), flite(1), festival(1), text2wave(1), scanimage(1)
AUTHOR
Jos Lemmens <jos@jlemmens.nl>
COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C)2013 Jos Lemmens <jos@jlemmens.nl>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option) any later version. This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details. You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program (see the file COPYING); if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA
